a short fuse    a quick temper
jack of all trades    someone that can do many different jobs
a shot in the dark    a wild guess; an attempt to do something when there is little chance of success
you can bet your life on that     completely certain that something is true or will happen
actions speak louder than words    people's intentions can be judged better by what they do than what they say
add insult to injury    make a bad situation even worse
all in the same boat    when everyone is facing the same challenges
arm and a leg    very expensive; a large amount of money
at the drop of a hat    willing to do something immediately, on the slightest signal or urging
back to square one    having to start all over again
back to the drawing board    when an attempt fails and it's time to start all over
be glad to see the back of    be happy when a person leaves
beat a dead horse    to force an issue that has already ended
beat around the bush    avoiding the main topic
beck and call    to serve anyone or fulfill any wish.
behind the times    old-fashioned
bet your bottom dollar    absolutely sure about something or someone
bite off more than you can chew    to take on a task that is way too big.
bite your tongue    to stop yourself from saying something that you would really like to say
blessing in disguise    something good that isn't recognized at first
bonehead    a stupid person
bored to death    extremely unhappy because something is not interesting or because you have nothing to do
brass monkey weather    extremely cold weather
break the ice    to break initial awkwardness and start conversation
butterflies in my stomach    to be nervous
buy a lemon    to buy a car that constantly gives problems soon after being purchased
by the book    following the rules literally
call it a night    to stop an activity for the rest of the night
can't judge a book by its cover    cannot judge something primarily on appearance
cat got your tongue?    can’t you speak? (usually said to embarrass the other person)
catch 22    a paradoxical situation from which an individual cannot escape because of contradictory rules
fall between two stools    to fail because of an inability to reconcile or choose between two courses of action
come a long way    make a lot of progress and improvement
cross that bridge when you come to it    deal with a problem only when it becomes necessary, not before.
cry over spilt milk    when you complain about a loss that cannot be recovered
cut corners    to do something in the fastest or cheapest way
cut it out!    stop doing something bad
cut the mustard    to succeed; to come up to expectations; adequate enough to compete or participate
cut to the chase    leave out unnecessary details and just get to the point
devil's advocate    one who takes a contrary position just for the sake of argument
don't put all your eggs in one basket    do not put all your resources in one thing
elvis has left the building    the show has come to an end. it's all over.
far cry from    very different from.
feeling a bit under the weather    feeling slightly ill
finding a needle in a haystack    virtually impossible to find
from the horse's mouth    to hear something directly from the authoritative or dependable source
get over it    to move beyond something that is bothering you
good samaritan    one who helps others when they are in need, with no thought of a reward
have an ax to grind    to have something to complain about; to have a selfish reason for saying or doing something; to have a strong opinion about something that influences your actions
head over heels    very excited and/or joyful, especially when in love
hear it on the grapevine    receive information indirectly, similar to a rumor
high five    slapping palms above each others heads as celebration gesture
hit the books    to study; prepare for class; learn things
hit the nail on the head    do something or say something exactly right
hit the hay / sheets / sack    to go to bed
hocus pocus    in general, a term used in magic or trickery and also : meaningless talk or activity, often designed to draw attention away from and disguise what is actually happening; trickery
hot potato    something that is difficult or dangerous to deal with
hot water    in trouble; in difficulties
in ages    for a very long time
in the blink of an eye    in an extremely short time
in the fast lane    a life filled with excitement
it's a small world    something you say when encountering a familiar person in an unexpected place.
juggle frogs    you are trying to do something very difficult.
keep something at bay    keep something away.
keep your eye on the ball    paying close attention and understanding the situation well
kick the bucket    to die
kill two birds with one stone    accomplish two tasks with only one effort
lend a hand    to help; to give assistance
let sleeping dogs lie    to avoid restarting a conflict
let the cat out of the bag    reveal a secret, usually carelessly or revealed by mistake
long shot    something you try although it is unlikely to be successful
long time, no see!    an expression used to greet someone who you have not seen for a long time
look like a million dollars    to be very well dressed; to look great
loose cannon    someone whose actions (especially speech) are unpredictable and uncontrollable
lose your head    to become upset, confused or overly emotional about something
lose your shirt    lose all their money through a bad investment, gambling,
make a long story short    come to the point - leave out details
method to my madness    an assertion that, despite one's approach seeming random, there actually is structure to it.
miss the boat    to be too late; lose the opportunity; fail to take action
money talks    the influence of money trumps other influences
mumbo jumbo    nonsense or meaningless speech or writing
nest egg    savings set aside for future use
not a spark of decency    meaning: no manners
not playing with a full deck    someone who lacks intelligence.
off one's rocker    crazy, demented, out of one's mind, in a confused or befuddled state of mind, senile.
off the hook    freed from a blame or obligation; having avoided a difficult situation
once in a blue moon    something that happens very rarely
once in a while    sometimes, not very often
out of the blue    something that suddenly and unexpectedly occurs
over my dead body    when you absolutely will not accept or allow something to happen
over the top    very excessive; outrageously overdone
penny for your thoughts    asking someone what they are thinking about
picture paints a thousand words    a visual presentation is far more descriptive than words.
piece of cake    when some task is very easy
play second fiddle    to be less important
poker face    an impassive facial expression hiding real feelings
pull the plug    to stop something; to bring something to an end
pulling someone's leg    tricking someone as a joke
scapegoat    someone else who takes the blame
see eye to eye    be in agreement
shake a leg    to go fast, hurry
shy away from a daring task    avoid something due to fear or uncertainty
slap on the wrist    a very mild punishment
sleep on it    wait until the next day before making an important decision
snake in the grass    a treacherous person, especially one who feigns friendship.
snug as a bug in a rug    warm and cozy; content
speak of the devil!    reference to a person who appears unexpectedly while being talked about
spill the beans    to expose a secret
start from scratch    to do it all over again from the beginning
take it easy    to relax
taste of your own medicine    means that something happens to you, or is done to you, that you have done to someone else
the ball is in your court    your turn to speak or act next
the last straw    the last burden or problem that causes previous problems, which had been tolerated, to become unbearable
the whole nine yards    everything, all of it
time out    stop; take a break; calm down
tip of the iceberg    the small easily visible part of a larger problem
toss-up    a situation where two or more possibilities are equally likely
turn a blind eye    to ignore something you know is real and pretend you do not see it
twenty-four/seven    all the time; continuous operation
up a creek without a paddle    in an unlucky/bad situation
when pigs fly    something that will never ever happen
wouldn't be caught dead    would never like to do something
you bet!    sure, yes, of course
your guess is as good as mine    to have no idea, do not know the answer to a question
zero tolerance    absolutely no toleration of even the smallest infraction of a rule
zip your lip    if someone tells you to zip your lip, they want to to shut up or keep quiet about something. ('zip it' is also used.)
tit for tat    an action done to revenge against a person who has done some wrong to you
don't wash your dirty laundry in public    people, especially couples, who argue in front of others or involve others in their personal problems and crises, are said to be washing their dirty laundry in public; making public things that are best left private.
don't cry over spilt milk    when something bad happens and nothing can be done to help it people say, 'don't cry over spilt milk'
you reap what you sow    this means that if you do bad things to people, bad things will happen to you, or good things if you do good things. it is normally used when someone has done something bad.
put the cart before the horse    doing things in a wrong manner
brand-new    completely new
walk on thin ice    to be careful
third wheel    the third wheel may feel uncomfortable about watching the couple canoodle on his her her sofa, but none of this is taken into consideration.
the shoemaker's son always goes barefoot    meaning that the family of a skilled or knowledgeable person are often the last to benefit from their expertise.
have two pennies to rub together    a person very poor without any penny
the early bird gets the worm    success comes to those who prepare well and put in effort.
too many cooks spoil the broth    if too many people are involved in a task or activity, it will not be done well.
hopping mad    to be extremelly angry
on cloud nine    in an extremely blissful state.
get laid    to have sex
bit the bullet    decide to do something difficult
made your bed, now lie    you made a decision and now must accept its consequences.
scatterbrain    a person who tends to be disorganized and lacking in concentration.
run into the sand    come to nothing
be in seventh heaven    to be extremely happy
whale of a time    to enjoy yourself very much
a bitter pill to swallow    something unpleasant that must be accepted or endured.
feel the pinch    to have problems with money
cast in the same mould    people or things very similar.
penny-pincher    a stingy person
your belly button is bigger than your stomach    you take on more responsibilities than you can handle.
bow and scrap    to try too hard to please someone in a position of authority
pull the wool over one's eyes    to deceive someone
make hair stand on end    to make someone feel very frightened
that's the heart of the matter.    central or critical point of an issue.
give the third degree, give a sound trashing    to interrogate
a voice crying in the wilderness    someone who expresses an idea
naked truth    unadorned facts, without concealment or embellishment.
lame duck    someone who is in the last period of a term in an elective office
draw the short straw    specially a group of people have chosen to perfom some unpleaseant task
shoot the breeze    to spend time talking about things that are not important:
old hand    a person who is experienced in or familiar with a subject, area, procedure, etc.:
talk hot air    to lie about something
bone of contention    the subject or point of an argument; an unsettled point of disagreement.
pandora's box    a source of extensive but unforeseen troubles or problems:
east or west, home is best    home is the best place to be no matter where it is.
the ends justifies the means    you can use bad or immoral methods as long as you accomplish something good by using them
the forbidden fruit is the sweetest    forbidden things have more worthwhile short-term consequences.
the apple doesn't fall far from the tree    a child grows up to be similar to its parents
there's no smoke without fire    gossip or accusations are often substantiated by fact.
fight fire with fire    use the same methods on people that are attacking or threatening you
all that glitters is not gold    things that appear on the surface to be of great value may be quite worthless.
don't look a gift horse in the mouth    don't question the value of a gift.
you couldn't split them apart with water/as thick as thieves    to be tight or best friends with someone
its raining cats and dogs    to raining a lot
talking to a brick wall    the person you are speaking to does not listen
red in the face    suffer embarrassment or shame
mum's the word.    to keep silent about a secret
know like the back of your hand ?    to know a place very well
the odd one out    a person or thing that is different from or kept apart from others that form a group or set:
a friend in need    a true friend is one who helps you when you are in need
no pain no gain    withot work hard, without sucess
live and learn    learn from experience and from your mistakes.
every dog has his day    even the lowest of us enjoys a moment of glory.
love is blind    a person who is in love can see no faults or imperfections in the person whom he or she loves.
it doesn't hurt to ask    when you think that someone should ask for something, even if the answer is probably \
three sheets to the wind    when a man is drunk, he does not fear anything
lose one's train of thought    to forget about one thinking
off one's guard    to surprise someone
look alive!    pay attention! move quickly!:
to do one's utmost    to make the greatest possible effort
a bigwig    a person who has an important or powerful position:
hold your tongue back    to not speak
rome wasn't built in a day!    important work takes time.
neck and neck    even or very close; indeterminate as to the outcome:
don't count your chickens before they've hatched    you should not expect all of your hopes to be fulfilled.
tomorrow is another day    tomorrow will bring new opportunities and a fresh start for one's endeavors
pull the cat's tail    to do something slowly
scratch head    to have difficulty understanding something:
a fish rots from the head down    when an organization or state fails, it is the leadership that is the root cause.
every which way    in all directions; in disorganized fashion
hold one's breath    be excited, anxious, or nervous.
narrow escape    a person saves yourself of a danger situation
rock the boat    to disrupt the smooth functioning or routine of something:
look before you leap    to think of the consequences before you act
all the way to egery and back    a long distance to travel
to have your cake and eat it, too.    you can’t enjoy both of two desirable but mutually exclusive alternatives:
have finger in too many pies    to be involved in and have influence over many different activities
on the pig's back    to be in luck
throw the baby out with the bathwater    don't discard something valuable along with something undesirable.
land on one's feet    to be lucky or successful, especially after difficulties
pull someone's bacon out of the fire    to save someone or something
caught with one's hand in the cookie jar    seen by somebody while trying to take a thing that he/she was not entitled to.
in dire straits    in a very bad situation that is difficult to fix
heart of gold    a person that is kind
god forbid.    i hope this does not happen:
water under the bridge    something that happened in the past and cannot now be changed:
to be broke    to not have enough money.
to be on the ball    to be quick to understand and react to things:
turn a deaf ear    refuse to listen
to progress by leaps and bounds    with unexpectedly rapid progess
smell a rat    this is when you suspect something not quite right
crème de la crème    the best part of something
old chicken makes good soup    when a person is very interisting despite its age
tough nut to crack    a problem difficult to solve or a person difficult to understand
to throw cold water on something    to be negative about someone's ideas or plans:
muddy the waters    to make a situation more confused and less easy to understand or deal with
the straw that broke the camel's back    the seemingly minor or routine action which causes an unpredictably large and sudden reaction
calm before the storm    a quiet or peaceful period before a period during which there is great activity, argument, or difficulty:
give up the ghost    to die, or in the case of inanimate objects, to cease working.
company in distress makes sorrow less    shared trouble is more comforting
one card shy of a full deck    a dement person
to place the cherry on top    to conclude some task with something extra
to throw a monkey wrench in the works    to do something that prevents a plan or activity from succeeding
to rub salt in the wound    to make a difficult situation even worse for someone
the icing on the cake    something that makes a good situation even better:
put salt on his tail    to capture
neither fish nor fowl    having no specific character or conviction
none of your business    it is none of your concern
speak off the cuff    to speak without preparing a speech
a cold day in hell    an event that will never happen.
reinvent the wheel    to design or implement a tool equivalent to an existing one or part of one
nip and tuck    in a situation in which one side seems to be winning and then the other, so that the result is uncertain:
to bite the dust    to die or to stop working:
roll up one's sleeves    getting ready to hard work
take the wind out of someone's sails    to cause someone to lose hope or the will to continue
there is many a slip between cup and lip    to emphasize that many bad things might happen before something is finished
all sizzle and no steak    someone or something fails to live up to expectations
hard work never hurt anyone.    one should expect to do hard or difficult work and not avoid doing it.
by hook or crook    by whatever means possible, fair or unfair.
back on one's feet    to be weary
to paint the town red    to go out and have fun
on one's own    to feel responsibility for something yourself
see light at the end of the tunnel    success is not far away, things will get better
out of sight, out of mind.    to forget about something
honest to god!    to emphasize something that it is true
to be green with envy    to be very unhappy because someone has something that you want:
neither a borrower or a lender be.    it is difficult to be friends with someone who owes you money
the bottom line    the most important fact in a situation:
that's for the birds.    trivial; worthless; only of interest to gullible people.
to twiddle one's thumbs    to do nothing for a period of time, usually while you are waiting for something to happen:
keep your fingers crossed!    to hope that things will happen in the way that you want them to:
the penny dropped,    a belated realization of something after a period of confusion or ignorance.
a skeleton in the closet    to describe a shameful secret.
dumb as a post    a person very stupid
give credit where credit is due.    to praise someone who deserves
don't toot your own horn.    to have no patience or energy to tolerate something anymore
haste makes waste    says that doing something too quickly causes mistakes that waste effort, time, and resources
a stone's throw    very short distance
misfortunes never come singly    bad things or situations always come in groups
one good turn deserves another.    you do a helpful or kind act for someone who has done something good for you
as old as the hills    something or someone too old
united we stand, divided we fall.    people are more successful as a group than as individuals
while there is life there is hope.    as long as you are alive, you should be hopeful, because it is possible that your situation will improve
to be at the end of one's rope    to have no patience or energy to tolerate something anymore
once bitten, twice shy.    when you are frightened to do something again
packed (in) like sardines    the people positioned very close together so that they cannot move
birds of a feather flock together.    about people who have similar characters or interests
behind the scenes    out of sight of the audience or public
listen!    to ask for attention
to not be made of money.    to not be very rich or do not have enough money
i'll eat my hat if...    you are sure something will not happen:
lose sleep over it    to concern about something
down the drain    on the way to being lost or wasted
what’s eating you?    asking someone if something is on their mind or bothering them
bend over backwards    give time and make an exceptional effort to help with something
a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush    having one certain thing is better than having two possibilities that might not happen
popping out    when someone is leaving their spot for a little while
talk the hind legs off a donkey    a person who really talks too much
throw a spanner in the works    to do something that prevents a plan or activity from succeeding
all hat and no cattle    someone seems impressive or exciting but in reality they do not do much and they do not know what they are talking about
a cup of joe    cup of coffee
against the grain    doing the opposite of what is normally expected
ace in the hole    something hidden that is of great advantage
calm before the storm    peace and quiet before chaos
go hard in the paint    giving something full effort, trying very hard
when life gives you lemons    to be in a bad situation
if you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen    to tell someone that they should either stop complaining about a difficult or unpleasant activity, or stop doing it
the squeaky wheel gets the grease    attention to the biggest problem, make noise for attention to fix a problem
ups and downs    good times and bad times
full of shit    saying something ridiculous, saying incorrect or nonsensical things
too big to fail    something so important that it's failure would cause tremendous problems
the bee's knees    s something or someone outstandingly good
get down to brass tacks    start to consider the essential facts or practical details; reach the real matter at hand
the best (or greatest) thing since sliced bread     a notable new idea, person, or thing (used to express real or ironic appreciation)
break a leg    good luck!
take someone's breath away    inspire someone with awed respect or delight; astonish someone.
no-brainer    requiring little mental effort
a bed of roses    a comfortable and easy situation to be in
